#notes #math112 #math #calc



So, what's been going on with geometric series

$$\sum\limits _{k=0} ^{\infty}ar^{k}= \frac{a}{1-r}, if |r|<1$$

$$\sum\limits _{l=1} ^{\infty}ar^{l-1} = \frac{a}{{1-r}}if |r| < 1$$

---

### does $\sum\limits_{k=1}^{\infty}a_{k}$ converge?
- We've been doing a bunch of nice sequences that have nice formulas, aaand now we're going into the jungle.
	- At least they've got fun and games.
- We're going to focus on $a_{k}>0$ 

##### got some tests
- The divergence test
	- Warm up:
		- If object A is a dog, then it is a mammal.
		- If object A is not a mammal, then it is not a dog.
		- They're the same statement! $\equiv$ 
		- If object A is a mammal, then inconclusive if dog.
	- The DT
		- If $\sum\limits_{k=1}^{\infty}a_{k}$ converges, then $\lim\limits_{k \to \infty}a_{k}=0$
		- If $\lim\limits_{k \to \infty}a_{k}\neq0,$ then $\sum\limits_{k=1}^{\infty}a_{k}$ diverges
		- If $\lim\limits_{k \to \infty}a_{k}=0,$ then we have absolutely no idea whether or not it converges
		- ###### Example
			- $s = \sum\limits_{k=1}^{\infty}\cos(\frac{1}{k})$
			- So the $\lim\limits_{k \to \infty}\cos(\frac{1}{k})=\cos(0)=1$
			- So, this diverges
		- Slightly different
			- $\sum\limits_{k=1}^{\infty}\sin(1/k)$
			- $\lim\limits_{k \to \infty}\sin(\frac{1}{k})\sin(0)=0$
				- That... might diverge! We dunno!
				- 
- The integral test
##### and more kinds of series!
- harmonic
- p-series




----

misc other examples

### Classic Series

##### Harmonic Series
$$\sum\limits _{k=1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{k}$$
$$\lim\limits_{k \to \infty} \frac{1}{k}=0$$
##### 2 Series
$$\sum\limits _{k=1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{k^{2}}$$
$$\lim\limits_{k \to \infty} \frac{1}{k^{2}}=0$$
- Actually just a special case of the $p$ series



- Divergence test tells us all of jack squat

### I need something stronger!
- To test my series, of course. Not to drink...

- Let $f(x)$ be continous on $x\epsilon [1,\infty]$ 
	- Such that $f(x) > 0$
	- $f(x)$ is decreasing
		- Ie, $x_{2}> x_{1},$ then $f(x_{2})<f(x_{1})$
	- Let $a_{k}=f(k)$ for $k= 1,2,3...$
- then
	- if $\int_{1}^{\infty}f(x)dx$ converges, then $\sum\limits_{k=1}^{\infty}a_{k}$ converges
	- If that integral instead diverges then the series also diverges.


- We know (from right rectangle) $\sum\limits_{k=2}^{\infty} \leq \int_{1}^{\infty}f(x)dx \leq \sum\limits_{k=1}^{\infty}a_{k}$


Applying this to our classic series

$$\sum\limits _{k=1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{k}$$
$$f(x) = \frac{1}{x}$$
$$\int _{1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{x}dx = \ln(x) \Big|_{1}^{\infty}=\text{ diverges!}$$
This implies, from the integral test, that this also diverges.


Applying this to the 2 series

$$\sum\limits_{k=1} ^{\infty} \frac{1}{k^{2}}$$
$$f(x) = \frac{1}{x^{2}}$$
$$\int _{1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{x^{2}}dx = \int _{1}^{\infty}x^{-2} dx = - x^{-1}\Big|_{1}^{\infty}$$
$$= 0 --1 = 1$$
This integral converges, which implies that
$$\sum\limits _{k=1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{k^{2}} \text{ converges.... to something}$$
That apparently converges to $$\frac{\pi^{2}}{6}$$Thanks Euler, I guess


---


$$s = \sum\limits_{k=1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{k^{p}}\text {where } p > 0$$
p = 1 is the harmonic series $\frac{1}{k}$
p = 2 is the 2 series $\frac{1}{k^{2}}$

So $f(x) = \frac{1}{x^{p}}$

$$\int _{1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{x^{p}}dx =$$
$$\int \frac{1}{x}dx \text{ if } p=1$$
$$\int _{1}^{\infty} x^{-p} dx \text{ if } p\neq 1$$
$$= \frac{x^{-p+1}}{-p+1}\Big|_{1}^{\infty}$$
$$\sum\limits _{k=1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{k^{p}}\text{ diverges if } 0 < p \leq 1, \text{ and converges if } p > 1$$

 