#notes #edns151 #design 
#upcycleeverything 

## Design Process
- We're firmly in the middle of the squiggly part of design

### User Empathy
- The "linear pathway" is 
	- Empathize -> Define -> Ideate -> Prototype -> Test
	- The reality is, always toss empathy in
### Empathy
#### What is empathy?
- The ability to understand an individuals' experiences and feelings
- Empathy is feeling with people
	- Perspective taking
	- Staying out of judgement
	- Understanding their feels
		- Being able to regurgitate and communicate that understanding
- Once we have a slightly narrowed down user, talk to them

#### Engage
- Talk with them, be with them, etc

#### Observe
- Watch them! Observe body language 

- Interviews
- Observation
- Participation
- Simulation

### Interviews
- Prepare
	- Do your research and develop questions in advance
- Ask Open Ended questions
	- Don't lead a user into an answer
		- Don't ask "Is it a problem for you to ...."
	- Practice digging deeper with a follow up
		- Once they answer a question, don't just move on
- Take detailed notes OR ask permission to record
- Get your subject to show you how they do things
- Set aside your own assumptions and experiences
	- Look, we're young, its' kind of a moot point
- https:///www.interaction-design.org/literature/article/design-thinking-getting-started-with-empathy
- Zoom interview with someone in California
	- (I can do that) would count as an in person interview with someone outside golden (5 points)
### Problem Definition
- Upcycling is massive, we need to narrow it down to something we can actually work with
#### A Good Problem Definition Includes
- The actual problem (without a solution)
- Why?
- Context (who where under what circumstances)
- Background, stats, research
- Constraints
	- User needs
	- Resources
	- Others
		- Laws, money, etc
##### Good & Bad Examples
###### Good: 
- How might we increase traction for standard wheelchair wheels for rugged terrain?
- How might we improve stability for off-road use?
- how might we increase comfort and safety for long-term use?
###### Bad:
- How might we attach treads to wheelchair wheels?
- How might we use chair cushions to make wheelchairs more comfortable?
- How might we treat childhood Polio and reduce the need for wheelchairs?
Make sure your problem is actually  a problem!

### "Right Sizing" Your Problem
- You can identify 4-6 stakeholders for the team to talk to
- The challenge is open ended enough for multiple solutions
- Make sure its feasible to address the problem in a semester
- Among your team, we have reasonable skills to address it
- 



## done for next week
- Team: Share your DRAFT problem statement - what you want to solve
	- "How might we...."
- Individuals on what 