#notes #hass298 #hass #suiter 


## Wicked!
### You're gonna be pop-u-lar. 

#### Unironically, we're doing Wicked Problems
- What makes them so special?
- They're a pain in the neck.
	- They've got like a dozen causes, wide variety of things going on, nothing pleasant
	- Another big thing going on with wicked problems is that they're connected to other wicked problems
#### Wicked Problems: The Ten Properties of Wickedness
- Alright, fine fine, what's the big difference between hard problems and wicked problems?
	1. You can't effectively write a problem statement
	2. No Stopping rule
		1. You can't really tell when you've gotten to a solution
	3. Solutions aren't right or wrong
		1. Normally there's a pretty good endpoint, and you can say if it's good or bad
	4. No way to test if a problem is solved
	5. Every solution is one-and-done, you can't really trial and error
	6. There's kind of an $\infty$ number of solutions - it's not a well designed set
		1. Like, if you have trash in your house, there's ultimately a finite number of solutions - yeah, some are outlandish, you could move out, but they're ultimately pretty well defined
	7. Every wicked problem is essentially unique
	8. Every wicked problem is a symptom of another problem
	9. There can often be multiple explanations of a wicked problem
		1. You can justify things different ways, etc, lots of different understanding of what's the cause and effect
		2. Lots of stakeholders!
	10. You can't really get it wrong
		1. If you fuck this up, you uh, you're not doing great.
		2. If you try and solve counseling for children who have suffered abuse, you've just kinda fucked it all up.


## [[ICP - Wicked Problems]]

