 #edns151 #design 


- From Joey Verkler
	- Upcycling is currently being actively being innovated in the industry, there's a lot of people already working on it
	- Lots of work is done on-site, there are considerations to be given in what materials you use so they can be upcycled in the future, even if they're not currently upcycled

---
- Live SME talk 2 pts
- > 15 miles stakeholder engagement, 5 pts
- 3x Email Q&A exchange
- Phone Interview with ERI, 2pts
- 12 pts, content
----
1. Summary of Findings
A significant degree of perspective gathering was spent attempting to find a specific problem to focus on. Subject Matter experts Gav Houston and Joey Verkler, in a live talk at Colorado School of Mines, outlined several ways in which upcycling was already being used in the construction industry, and possible ideas to further implement construction based upcycling{REFERENCE - SME Talk 3, Houston & Verkler} . Mr. Verkler provided several fascinating ideas, such as attempting to use materials that could potentially be upcycled in the future, even if they are not an upcycled material themselves. While the problems and their solutions presented were intriguing, the team ultimately decided that we could better focus our efforts in an area with less already existing work - there are already several initiatives to increase upcycling in housing and other construction, such as examples of shipping container homes presented by Mr. Houston. 

An additional source of insight for the team was e-mailing several cities dumps and recycling departments, including Golden, San Diego, and Greeley. The San Diego recycling department included several useful insights, including that some of their most received questions and issues are regarding clarity in what kinds of waste they can process - one of the most common questions was regarding greenery and electronic waste, and what could or could not be dumped or processed at the facility. In addition, the improper placement of certain kinds of waste, such as a plastic bag in the greenery can, as depicted in Figure {FIGNUM}, could cause entire loads to be dumped. {REFERENCE - Email Q&A San Diego Recycling}. In contrast, Greeley outsources almost all of their recycling to partners, including Waste Management and Schaefer Enterprises, but their website still fields a significant quantity of questions regarding what can and cannot be recycled, as well as electronics specifically. {REFERENCE - EMAIL Q&A Greeley Public Works}.

Once the team had a potential problem definition - the recycling of televisions for low income and senior citizens, additional potential stakeholders became evident. During a face to face interview with Nancy Malcangio, a senior resident of San Diego, California, the team asked how Mrs. Malcangio would go about handling the disposal of an old television that had stopped working. Mrs. Malcangio responded that she would "probably get Dom (her son) to take to the dump," because she would be otherwise incapable of handling its movement and disposal.{REFERENCE: Interview with Nancy Malcangio} This interview with Mrs. Malcangio was incredibly insightful for the team as it revealed that while the physical issues of television recycling are present, there is also a societal issue of considering recycling in the first place. Mrs. Malcangio has a significant stockpile of aging electronic devices, as depicted in Figure {FIGNUM} and would only dispose of a television because it would be "too bulky" to keep around {REFERENCE: Interview with Nancy Malcangio}. This interview with Mrs. Malcangio was incredibly insightful for the team because it demonstrated that no matter what kind of technical solution we develop, we must also consider our end users behavior - they may have little to no interest in interfacing with an overly complicated new system when simply storing or outsourcing their e-waste works just as well. 

In an effort to locate potential existing solutions, the team reached out to Electronic Recyclers International (ERI) in an attempt to learn what kinds of services they offer in addition to how they process waste. Most of ERI's operations related to televisions are stripping out valuable metals and components to be sold or reused - for instance, gold is an extremely common and valuable component that ERI can frequently recover from many devices. {REFERENCE: Phone interview with ERI}. An additional service that ERI has only begun to offer for televisions in the past several years is data destruction - the increasing 'intelligence' of TVs mean that many users leave potentially sensitive information encoded in the memory of the television - meaning that ERI has begun to both digitally and physically destroy memory in order to preserve user privacy. {REFERENCE: Phone interview with ERI} This insight into an additional complication of television recycling, especially if the team wants our solution to be more resilient to future changes, is a useful consideration as we begin to move past problem definition and begin considering solutions. 

2. Remaining Unknowns
 There are several topics that warrant further investigation, especially with regards to the specificities of what kind of television e-waste the team should pursue. ERI highlighted quite how stark the recycling concerns can be between different generations of electronics {REFERENCE: Phone interview with ERI}. In addition, further interviews with end-user stakeholders (senior citizens and low-income users, at current) will be useful in order to determine where our solution needs to focus - if most users are similar to Mrs. Malcangio, that will inevitably influence how we implement our solutions. Furthermore, attempting to contact additional stakeholders already involved in the recycling process, such as Schaefer Enterprises in Greeley {REFERENCE - EMAIL Q&A Greeley Public Works} may prove useful in further narrowing the problem definition and in evaluating the solution space that the team should operate in. 

3. Summary
Throughout the course of these stakeholders interviews, the team's view on the problem went from incredibly broad - waste - to a very narrow subsection of a subsection of waste, for a narrow subsection of users. Stakeholder engagement was similarly pointed - initial interviews, such as those with Greeley Public Works and the San Diego Recycling Department, were incredibly broad, with loose answers helping only to narrow the problem definition. Later stakeholder interviews, such as Mrs. Malcangio, were very focused, and helped provide additional criterion for our solution that, while not present in the definition of our problem, are inevitably going to be useful in our implementation and solution. 
