#notes #math213 #math #calc


## Graphs and Level Curves
- We're considering several independent variables and one dependent variables 
	- Some real life examples:
		- Wind chill depends on at least two (temperature, wind speed)
		- Dosage is number of times administered and patient's body weight
#### Notation Stuff
$$z=f(x,y)$$
- That's what we call explicit form

$$F(x,y,z)=0$$
- Is then implicit form, where $z$ has not been dragged out

- We're dealing with functions, and well, functions have domains and ranges, so, we're going to need to find those

##### Domain
- The domain of a function $z=f(x,y)$ is the set of all points $(x,y),$ in $\mathbb{R}^{2}$ where $f$ is defined

##### Range
- The range is the outputs $z$ to the function $f(x,y)$

##### Notation Aside
- Set Notation to describe domain and range, interval doesn't really make a lot of sense

$$D := \{(x,y) \ | \ x,y, \in\mathbb{R}\}$$
D is always capitalized, $:=$ means "defined by", and the $|$ is working as a "such that"

#### Example

Find the domain of $$g(x,y)=\sqrt{4-x^{2}-y^{2}}$$
That square root implies that $4-x^{2}-y^{2}\geq 0$
$$x^{2}+ y^{2}\leq 4$$
- Oh hey, a circle, neat

$$D := \{(x,y) \mid x^{2}+y^{2}\leq 4\}$$
- The sketch for this is just a circle of radius two, centered on the origin, with the entire inside shaded for that "less than" part

### Level Curve
(or contour curve)

- Curve created by choosing $z_{0}$ for $f(x,y)=z_{0}$
	- you generally pick like, four different points to plug in
- Level curves will essentially be traces 
- If the level curves are close together, the "steeper" our 3 dimensional shape is

- Level curves are used for topographical maps to show elevation, which is kinda neat


#### Example Time
- Find the domain and range of $f(x,y) = \sqrt{9-x^{2}-y^{2}}$, then use level curves for $z_{0}= 0,1,2,3$ to sketch $f(x,y)$ in 3D

$$D := \{(x,y) \mid x^{2}+ y^{2}\leq 9\}$$
- So that's domain, we gotta do some puzzling to get range though.

$$z_{0}=0 => 0 = \sqrt{9-x^{2}-y^{2}}, 9 =x^{2}+ y^{2}$$
Circle. (of radius three)
$$z_{0}=1 => 1 = \sqrt{9-x^{2}-y^{2},}8=x^{2}+y^{2}$$
Circle. (of radius $\sqrt{8}$)

$$z_{0}=2 => x^{2}+ y^{2}= 5$$
Circle. (of radius $\sqrt{5}$)
$$z_{0}= 3 => 0=x^{2}+ y^{2}$$
No longer circle. Now has become (0,0)

We get a nice little dollop-y mountain thing. (It's actually the upper half of a sphere)


$$R := \{z \mid 0 \leq z \leq 3\}$$
### yet another example
- Find the domain and range of $f(x,y) = e^{-x^{2}-y^{2}}$, then sketch $f$

Domain: $$D := \{(x,y)\mid x,y \in\mathbb{R}\}$$
Yipeee! Happy happy happy! (That's just from the normal domain of $e^{x}$)
Level curves.


0 If $y = e^{x}$ then $y>0$
So let's try $z > 0$

In general, let $z=z_{0}$

$$z_{0}= e^{-x^{2}-y^{2}}$$
- Quick reminder that level curves are traces in $x,y$, so we're looking for a function $f(x)=y$

$$\ln(z_{0}) = \ln(e^{-x^{2}-y^{2}})$$
$$\ln(z_{0})= -x^{2}-y^{2}$$
$$-\ln(z_{0}) = x^{2}+ y^{2}$$
- Quick tests
$$- \ln(\frac{9}{10})= \ln(\frac{10}{9})>0$$
$$-\ln(\frac{10}{9})= \ln\left(\frac{9}{10}\right)< 0$$
So our range is

$$R := \{z \mid 0 < z \leq 1\}$$
So these are circles if $z$ is between 0 and 1

That's a circle with a positives radius $r = \sqrt{-\ln(z_{0})}$
- What happens at z=1, anyways?
	- That becomes a point! $(0,0,1)$
	- 