#notes #math213 #math #calc



## some shenanigans with special types of curves I dunno man
- Suppose a curve $C$ is given by $\vec{r}(t)$ from $a \leq t \leq b$. C is simple if $\vec{r}(t)\neq \vec{r}(t_{2})\forall t_{1},t_{2}\in[a,b]$ 
	- Read: the path cannot intersect itself
- $C$ is closed if $\vec{r}(a)=\vec{r}(b)$ 
	- Read: start spot is the same as the end spot
	- This makes a circle simple. Don't overcomplicate it.
	- A single traversal of a circle is simple *and* closed. The endpoint doesn't constitute an intersection due to <sub>what I feel is a smidget of bullshit</sub> a point not counting as an intersection.
- This is a sub field of topology known as knot theory

#### Election results.
- A $\vec{F}$ is conservative on a region (in $\mathbb{R}^{2}$ or $\mathbb{R}^{3}$) if $\exists\phi$ such that $\nabla y = \vec{F}$  where $\phi$ is scalar valued.
	- Example: If $\vec{F}=<y,x>$ and $\phi=xy+1$, is $\vec{F}$ conservative?
	$$\nabla\phi \stackrel{?}{=}\vec{F}$$$$<y,x>=<y,x> \text{ yep, so we're conservative (grr)}$$
- Note, $\phi$ is called a potential function.
	- A potential function is a function that is a scalar valued whose gradient produces a vector field is a potential function.

### How to find your potential (a step by step guide)
1. Do the integrals.
	1. $\int fdx$
	2. $\int gdy$
	3. $\int h dz$
2. Add up all terms from all three integrals, excluding duplicates (ie, if you go the same thing from two of them, toss one of em out)
3. Assign a C (most people choose zero)

##### Example
- Let $\vec{F}=<x+y+z,x-2y+z,x+y-3z^{2}>$
1. Okie, do your integrals
	1. $\int fdx = \int(x+y+z)dx = \frac{x^{2}}{2}+xy+xz+C$ 
	2. $\int gdy = \int (x-2y+z)dy = xy - y^{2}+yz+C_{2}$
	3. 