#notes #math213 #math #calc

Back in the good old days of Calc 1, we did limits of a single variable, and whatever it spat out was our limit


$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (a,b_{)}}f(x,y)=L$$
As $(x,y)$ gets close to $(a,b)$, the output of $f$ will get close to $L$

----
## Continuity of a Limit

The function $f(x,y)$ is continuous at the point $(a,b)$ if three things are true:
- The point must be defined
- Limit has to exist as it approaches the point
- Those things must be the *same*

$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (a,b)}f(x,y)= f(a,b)$$
Then you are continuous 

----

## Directional Shenanigans
- Back in calc 1, we had two nice directions we could approach from and that was awesome and wonderful and I loved it.
- Now are in Calc 3. You may approach a point from infinitely many paths.

$$D := \{(x,y) \mid x^{2}+ y^{2}\leq 4\}$$
- That spits out a closed circle, and you can approach any point in that circle from literally wherever the fuck you want.

----
- We're going to need a theorem, so let $a,b,c \in \mathbb{R}$
-

1. If $f(x,y) =c$, some constant
	1. then $\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (a,b)}C = c$
2. IF $f(x,y)= x$, then $\lim\limits_{(x,y)\to(a,b)}=\lim\limits_{(x,y)\to(a,b)}x=a$
3. If $f(x,y)=y, \text{ then } \lim\limits_{(x,y)\to(a,b)}=\lim\limits_{(x,y)\to(a,b)}y=b$

---


All you really need to know is that all limit laws still extend to 3d

$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (e^{2},4 )}\ln(\sqrt{xy})$$

- First off: PLUG IT IN
$$\ln(\sqrt{4e^{2}})$$
$$\ln(2e)$$
$$\ln(2) + \ln(e)$$
$$\ln(2) + 1$$
- Job done. We're happy. Yippity ta-tee ta.

----

$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (2,8)} (3x^{2}y + \sqrt{xy})$$
- ok we're practicing limit laws here, but just like... $(3(4)(8) + \sqrt{16})$
- $$96 + 4 = 100$$
$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (2,8) }3x^{2}y + \lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (2,8)}\sqrt{xy}$$

----

- What if $(a,b)$ is not in your domain?
	- Then you cry and whine and it eventually works out

$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (6,2)} \frac{x^{2}- 3xy}{x-3y} = \frac{0}{0}$$
- Sobbing. Crying.

$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (6,2)} \frac{(x)(x-3y)}{(x-3y)}= \lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (6,2)}(x)= 6$$


---

- If plugging in and simplifying both fail, we deploy the "Two-Path Test" (TPT)
- The TPT for nonexistence of limits
	- If we approach from two different paths and those paths don't agree on what you spit out, you have a problem
		- If both of those paths are in the domain and work out fine, then you can conclude that the limit does not exist)
	- Note that this is the TPT for the *non*existence of limits - it does not prove existence! Just that they don't!

$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (0,0)} \frac{x^{2}-y^{2}}{x^{2}+ y^{2}}$$
- if you plug in you get $\frac{0}{0}$, womp womp

$$D:= \{(x,y) \mid (x,y) \neq 0\}$$
Algebra?

$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (0,0)} \frac{(x-y)(x+y)}{x^{2}+ y^{2}}$$
- That was WORTHLESS.

- Let's try the tew path test
	- Moving along the x-axis, y is going to be 0

$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (x,0)} \frac{x^{2}-0}{x^{2}+0}= 1$$
- Quickly! Attack from (above) via the y axis!

$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (0,y)}= - \frac{y^{2}}{y^{2}} = -1$$

Last I checked, $-1 \neq 1$

$\therefore$ , by TPT, this limit quite solidly does not exist 
- For the record, I have to type out the word "therefore" to get the $\therefore$ symbol, so it's actually *more* work.

----

Do your own time


$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (1,0)} \frac{y\ln(x)}{x}$$
- Plug that shit in

$$\frac{0*0}{1}=0$$
Alright that's fine, Limit is 0

Next!

$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (1,-2)} \frac{y^{2}+2xy}{y+2x}$$
First of all, plug it in?

$$\frac{(-2)^{2}+ 2(1)(-2)}{-2 + 2}$$
$$\frac{4 + -4}{-2+2}=\frac{0}{0}$$
$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (1,-2)} \frac{\cancel{(y+2x)}(y)}{\cancel{(y+2x)}}= y=-2$$

$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (-1,1)} = \frac{2 + 1 -3}{0}= \frac{0}{0}$$

$$(x+y)(2x-3y)$$
$$2x^{2}-3yx +2xy -3y^{2}$$
$$\frac{(x+y)(2x-3y)}{(x+y)}$$
$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (-1,1)}(2x-3y)= -2 -3 = -5$$

One more

$$\lim\limits_{(x,y) \to (4,5)} \frac{\sqrt{x+y}-3}{x+y-9}$$




