#notes #math213 #math #calc


## more vector review!
- wednesday we chitchatted about the dot product - one if you know $\theta$, in which case you can use $\vec{u}\cdot\vec{v} = |\vec{u}||\vec{v}|\cos(\theta), 0 \leq \theta \leq \pi$
- or, the other one, $\vec{u}\cdot\vec{v}= u_{1}v_{1}+ u_{2}v_{2}$
##### find the angle 
Between $\vec{u}=<\sqrt{3},1,0>$ and $\vec{v}=<1,\sqrt{3},0>$
We know that $\cos(\theta) =\frac{\vec{u}\cdot\vec{v}}{|\vec{u}||\vec{v}|}$
- I'm also a dot product virst kinda girlie, so we're looking at $\sqrt{3}+\sqrt{3}=2\sqrt{3}$
	- Magnitude of both of them is $2$ ($\sqrt{\sqrt{3}^{2}+1^{2}}$)
	- $\cos(\theta)= \frac{2\sqrt{3}}{2*2}$
	- $\theta= \cos^{-1}(\frac{\sqrt{3}}{2})=\frac{\pi}{6}$

### couple important dot product bits
1.  $\vec{u}\cdot\vec{v}=\vec{v}\cdot\vec{u}$
	1. That's just the commutative property! Shit's wild.
2. $c(\vec{u}\cdot\vec{v})= (c\vec{u})\vec{v} + \vec{v}$ but NOT THE C ON BOTH TERMS. THAT WOULD BE SQUARED.
3. $\vec{u}\cdot(\vec{v}+\vec{w})= (\vec{u}\cdot\vec{v})+(\vec{u}\cdot\vec{w})$
4. Projection of $\vec{u}$ onto $\vec{v}$ = $\text{proj}_{\vec{v}}\vec{u}=\left(\frac{\vec{u}\cdot\vec{v}}{\vec{v}\cdot\vec{v}}\right)\cdot\vec{v}$

### fun times over. cross product time.
- Given two non-zero vectors, $\vec{u}$ and $\vec{v}$ in three dimensions, the magnitude of $|\vec{u}\times\vec{v}|=|\vec{u}||\vec{v}|\sin(\theta), 0\leq\theta\leq\pi$
- We have a little bit of a theorem from that
	- Given two non-zero vectors $\vec{u}$ and $\vec{v}$
		- $\vec{u}$ and $\vec{v}$ are parallel if and only if the cross product is equal to the 0 vector (ie, $\vec{u}\times\vec{v}=\vec{0}$)
- If $\vec{u}$ and $\vec{v}$ just so happen to coincidentally be sides of a parallelogram, the area of said parallelogram is the cross product's magnitude
	- Not the parallel sides. That would be silly.
#### Properties
1. $\vec{u}\times\vec{v}= -(\vec{v}\times\vec{u})$ 
	1. This is anti-commutative. Fuck this shit. 
2. $\forall a$, $b\in\mathbb{R}, a\vec{u}\times b\vec{v}=ab(\vec{u}\times\vec{v})$
3. $\vec{u}\times(\vec{v}+\vec{w})=(\vec{u}+\vec{v})+(\vec{u}+\vec{w})$ Left distributive property
4. $(\vec{u}+\vec{v})\times\vec{w}=(\vec{u}\times\vec{w})+(\vec{v}\times\vec{w})$ Right distributive
	1. Those are both shenanigans because we're not commutative. See note 1.1 for my opinion

#### Algebraic Definition of a Cross Product
- So, defintion of $\vec{u}\times\vec{v}$
- Given a $2\times2$ matrix $A$, $\det A = ad-bc$
- $$\begin{matrix}  
a & b\\  
c & d   
	\end{matrix}=> \det A = ad-bc$$
$$\vec{u}\times\vec{v} = \begin{matrix} \hat\imath & \hat\jmath & \hat{k} \\ u_{1}& u_{2}& u_{3}  \\ v_{1}& v_{2}& v_{3}\end{matrix}= \big{|}\begin{matrix} u_{2}& u_{3} \\ v_{1}& v_{3}\end{matrix}\big{|} \hat\imath - |\begin{matrix} u_{1}& u_{3} \\ v_{1} & v_{3}\end{matrix}|\hat\jmath + |\begin{matrix}u_{1}&u_{2} \\ v_{1}& v_2\end{matrix}| \hat{k}$$
- Find a vector $\perp$ to $\vec{u}=<1,2,3>$ and $\vec{v}=<-2,4,-1>$
	- A vector $\perp$ to $\vec{u}$ and $\vec{v}$ is parallel to $\vec{u}\times{\vec{v}}$

$$\vec{u}\times\vec{v}=\begin{matrix}\hat\imath & \hat\jmath & \hat k\\  1 & 2 & 3 \\ -2 & 4 & -1  \end{matrix}= (-2 - 12)\hat\imath \ - (-1 +6)\hat\jmath \ + (4 +4)\hat{k}$$
	$$= -14\hat\imath - 5\hat\jmath + 8\hat{k}$$
	

## activity time!
