#notes #csm101

## Questions
	- 1. How different are design major courses (ie edns 200) compared to other design offerings on campus (cornerstone, capstone, etc).  
  

	1. Bit of a silly question, but do you still have you explain what you're majoring in? I find if I say I'm a design engineering major, I often have to explain what that actually means to people. Does that change in upper level courses, or is that still constant?  
  
	1. (NOTE: may or may not ask depending on focus area) Lots of the design focus areas appear to have a smattering of some other discipline mixed in - for instance, robotics and automation is a sprinkle of ME/EE/CS. Do you wish you were more of a specialist, or what do you feel majoring in design does for you that majoring in some other more spec
	2. 
	3. ific field doesn't?
## General Q&A
- Buisness 
- Metallurgical/Materials
- Chemical
- Civil
- Geophysical
	- Energy and minerals
- Petroleum
- MechE
- Physics
- Compsci
- Mining
- Meche
- compsci
- Meche?
- Compsci
	- Ask about oceanography lab on campus
- MechE


- Those of you with minors, did you, why did you, etc?
	  Only added it senior semester just to be a full time student
	  Switching majors, already had enough credit sto be able to minor in it
	  Study abroad happened?
- Oceanography
	  Professor Biya?
	  Got ehre recently, there's like four students involved in it
- Switched major, why?
	- Was a MechE, took a design class, instantly hated it, had to switch
	- Majored in it, didn't enjoy it in the moment, kept the minor for the future
- Anyone in MechE; how did you decide your focus area, and how did you figure it out?
	- Senior and still don't have it figured out, internship realized enjoy the designing aspect, but still haven't declared a minor or anything
	- If you end up really liking a certain class, you can use that as your chance to see what to specialize in
	- Maybe try out a couple clubs near your track
- Study Abroad
	- Mines class with a Mines professor in some other country
		- Actually pretty similar to out of state tuition
- Metallurgical
	- Lots more chemistry based than a lot of people think, you need to do a lot of chemistry to figure out how all that is going to happen
- Day as an intern look like?
	- Petroleum Internships: You either wrok in an office and do operation based thing, or a field based internship, where you'll be on a rig, live there, do petroleum shit. 
	- In a co-op: Two hours every day, log on, see stuff in teams, 
	- Smaller company you're more flexible, larger companies you're more likely to get assigned a job and stay there
	- Smaller comapnies you're basically an engineer
		- Larger companies you do stuff 
	- "Make this thing," then making that thing
	- 
## General First-Year Advice
- It gets better
- Remember to take time
- Get close with the people you're inevitably going to be stuck with in your major
- Feel free to bother your professors, you're paying them
- Do HASS at red rocks
- It's way easier to drop a class than to add a class
- Plan your schedule / follow your flowchart

## Major Specific
