#notes #phgn200 #physics

## it'S CIRCUIT TIME YIPPEEEEEEEEE


Conductors allow electrons tot ravel freely
- This happens for a avariety of reasons, including a raging hatred for other electrons.
- When electrons move in a material, that's electric current, and is given by

$$I = \frac{\Delta Q}{\Delta t}$$
- Example is eight electrons moving out of a section of wire in two seconds, giving a current of $4eA$

## That son of a bitch Benjamin Franklin
- We pretend that protons are moving, not electrons, when dealing with current. This leads to a bunch of random negative signs. Blame Benny F. 

## Current

If we have a wire, with cross sectional area $A$, and drift velocity $v_{d}$, over some time $\Delta t$

$$\ell = v_{d}\Delta t$$

- Number of charge carriers per unit volume is n
- Charge on each carrier is $q$
- Drift speed of each charge is $v_{d}$
- Distance a charge travels in some time is $\ell = v_{d}\Delta t$
- Sticking all of this together, we get the total charge that flows through some length, in some time.
$$\Delta Q = nqA\ell = nqA(v_{d}\Delta t)$$
$$\left(\frac{\cancel{\text{Num Carriers}}}{\cancel{\text{ Volume}}}\right) \left( \frac{\text{Charge}}{\cancel{\text{Num carriers}}}\right)\cancel{(\text{Volume (area *length)})}= \text{Charge}$$

- Current uses units of coulombs per second, or Amperes.


$$I = n |q| A v_{d}$$
You are never safe from the risk of getting integrated.

$$dI = n |q| v_{d}* dA$$

$$10 = (8.47*10^{28})(\pi * (\frac{1}{1000}^{2})* v_{d}* 1e$$
$$v_{d}= \frac{10}{(8.47*10^{28}) ( \frac{\pi}{1000000})*1.602*10^{-19}}\approx 2*10^{-4} \frac{m}{s}$$
- Current has a direction, but is definitively not a vector (I was questioning why, but it's because current can be looped, and vector math would say that a loop is 0)
$$\hat{J}= nq\vec{v_{d}}$$
$$I = \int\vec{J}\cdot d\vec{a}$$

-----

Resistance is, the effort to push electrons through non-perfect conductors. 

$$R = \frac{\rho L}{A}$$
- Longer resistors have higher resistance, quirkily though, inversely proportional to area, this is because electrons aren't fighting so hard to fucking murder each other when you spread them out over like, Kansas.
$$\Delta V = IR$$
- There's my boy. My lad. The classic. We're dealing exclusively with Ohmic resistors, which are the same depending on voltage drop or current.
	- Air is a non-ohmic resistor, fun fact. It works as a conductor over a certain point, which gives ya lightning.


----

## Series and Parallel
- Series are... in a row. You gotta go through all of them... in series (roll credits)
- Parallel are arranged so they see the same voltage drop across all of them... they're parallel to each other. 

#### Series
- Current is the same across all of them
- Voltage is going to add together (which you can also get to by adding resistance together)
-
#### In Parallel
- Voltages are the same across all
- Currents are the same

$$I_{tot}= V(\frac{1}{R_{1}}+ \frac{1}{R_{2}}+ \frac{1}{R_{3}})$$
$$V\sum\limits_{i} \frac{1}{R_{i}}= \frac{V}{R_{eq,parallel}} $$

- Example, if you have two 1 ohm resistors, in parallel, you'll end up with $$\frac{1}{R_{t}}= \frac{1}{1}+ \frac{1}{1}= \frac{1}{R_{t}} = \frac{2}{1}= \frac{1}{2}\Omega$$
-


----

1.5 ohm
$$\frac{1}{1}+ \frac{1}{2}= \frac{3}{2}= \frac{2}{3}\Omega$$
