#notes #phgn200 #physics

## final bit
- December 9th from (time to time), last name based, yadayada
- Has not been written yet, but:
	- Will be 20 multiple choice questions, roughly 15 of which are going to be from homework, the other five from studio/discussion.
	- Extra credit stuff that adds 1% to your grade each, grand total of.. +2%.
		- The phys 2 equivalent of a course review is from December 2nd-4th, and will give ya +1%.

### ok back to waves
- We don't.... really care about the energy in a wave at a given point, we care more about how much it's delivering( power)
	- Intensity is going to be how spread out this power is, which is going to be $I= \frac{P}{A}$
		- It's *way* easier to measure intensity than actual power, so that's what we measure.
	- Poynting (pronounced pointing, not a typo) Vector is the intensity, represented by $\vec{S}$
		$$\vec{S} = \frac{\vec{E}\times \vec{B}}{\mu_{0}}$$

## Radiation Pressure
$$F_{absorb}= \frac{EBA}{\mu_{0}c}, P_{absorb}= \frac{I}{c}, P_{reflect}= \frac{2I}{c}$$
- In this case, the P we're solving for is pressure, not power. Fuck you.<sub>Apparently, you can even get the same letter representing up to three different things. Fuck you too, physics. We couldn't get like a rho or something at the very least?</sub> 

----

### Solar Sail Problem
- We're some distance $D$ from the sun, and unfurl a circular solar sail of radius $R$, oriented to capture the most sunlight possible. If the sun radiates a power of $P_{rad}$, find the total force.
	- First up is finding intensity, which should just be power/surface area, or $\frac{P_{rad}}{4\pi D^{2}}$
	- To find radiation pressure, we're reflected, so it becomes $P = \frac{2I}{c}$, or $P = \frac{P_{rad}}{2\pi D^{2}c}$

### Antennas
- Linear antennas pick up the electric field of a wave directly, or $V = -\int\vec{E}\cdot d \vec{\ell}$
- Circular antennas have voltages induced by way of Faraday's law, where EMF = $-\frac{d\Phi_{B}}{dt}$
- Total atenna radiation can be measured in watts, or Joules / second, and the signal strength at a location is intensity, watts / area.

##### Handy support equations
$$\text{Intensity}= \frac{\text{Power}}{\text{Area}}= \frac{1}{2}c\epsilon_{0}E^{2}$$
$$\omega = 2\pi f$$
$$I = \frac{P}{4\pi D^{2}}$$
- Quick little reminder that $E=cB$
---

- So we have that $$B(t) = \frac{1}{c}\sqrt{\frac{P}{2\pi \epsilon_{0}cD^{2}}}\sin(kx-\omega t)$$
$$\phi _{B}= \left(\frac{1}{c}\sqrt{\frac{P}{2\pi \epsilon_{0}cD^{2}}}\sin(kx-\omega t)\right)*(\pi R^{2})$$
$$\text{Quick } \frac{d}{dt}=1(\text{ all that)})$$
