#notes #phgn200 #physics


### fluxxy
- Flux is how much of an electric field poinst through a surface
- Electric flux through a closed surface is directly proportional to the amount of charge enclosed by that surface
$$\Phi_{E} = \frac{q_{enc}}{\epsilon_{0}}$$
- What does the $\epsilon_{0}$ mean?
	- Great question! It's a constant. L, bozo.
- As long as the charge is enclosed within something, where the charge is and the shape itself do *not* matter
- We're going to do some bullshit to conjure a closed surface to deal with flux on open stuff

- Gaussian surface, we, essentially, just make shit up in order to figure out flux.
	- We can change size, shape, position, whatever! We just out here making shit up.

#### brief symmetry overview 
- spherical symmetry: you can rotate in any direction and it'll be the exact same
- Cylindrical symmetry: You can translate or rotate along an axis without changing (for long cylinders, not short uns)

- "What defines long vs short?" "It's a little bit of a vibe"
	- So many "short cylinder" problems that "long cylinders" don't have to deal with

- Planar Symmetry: An object can be translated in either direction without being changed (too much)

$$\text{Flux through cube: } \Phi = \frac{Q}{\epsilon_{0}}$$
$$\text{Flux through one face: }\Phi_{face}= \frac{Q}{6\epsilon_{0}}$$

#### new flux
$$\Phi_{E}= \int \vec{E} \cdot d\vec{A} = \frac{q_{encl}}{\epsilon_{0}}$$
- $d\vec{A}$ is a small differential piece of area, and our electric field may vary depending on where we are

#### sign of flux
- On an open surface, you, uh, you get to pick! Have fun with that.
- If the shape is closed, strict convention that our vectors point outwards
- Flux is essentially the "concentration" of fields, a big area with less field lines with have less flux than a big area with more field lines, and similarly the same amount of field, but a bunch of it "missing" a small area will also lead to less flux
- Same vector spits out a 1, perpendicular spit out a 0 (just for reminders)

- Orientation matters!
	- It's the area *vector,* which is essentially the perpendicular thing you define a plane by

#### some example bullshit

$$\vec{E} = Axy\hat\imath + Bx^{2}\hat\jmath + Cy\hat{k}$$
Is our electric field, with some cube of side length $\ell$

$d\vec{A}$ is in the direction of $\hat{k}$, and then $d\vec{A}$ is just going to by $dxdy$

$$\int <Axy , Bx^{2}, Cy> \cdot <0, 0, dxdy>$$
$$\int < (0) + (0) + (Cy*dxdy)$$
$$\int Cy *dxdy$$
$$\frac{Cxy^{2}}{2}$$
- Quick jumpscare from multivariable calculus, let's find out if I did this right!
- 