#notes #phgn200 #physics

### Gauss's Law
$$\oint\vec{E}  \cdot  d \vec{A}= \frac{q_{encl}}{\epsilon_{0}}$$
You can always find the flux if you know the charge enclosed by the surface
- Sometimes, you can solve for $\vec{E}$, but that requires symmetry shenanigans


As a vague algorithm for how you can do this, you can:
1. Write out the law and draw a picture!
2. Invent a Gaussian surface for funsies that's actually useful
3. Solve the left hand side, taking note of symmetries and all that
	1. See if the field is parallel or perpendicular to the area vector
4. Find $q_{encl}$
5. Set both sides equal and solve for $E$


----

#### example
- We have our long solid cylinder with radius $R$ and. charge density $\rho$ uniformly distributed throughout

- Cylinder?
	- I mean like, our hypothetical gaussian surface is just... a ~~bigger~~ smaller! cylinder? Right?

- If the electric field always points exactly parallel or perpendicular to the Gaussian surface, you can.. toss out the dot product, and toss out the vectors
- And if we can guarantee that it doesn't change, then we can just yoink the E outside the integral. 

So if we're always exactly parallel or perpendicular
$$\oint \vec{E} \cdot d\vec{A} = \int EdA$$
And if it doesn't change, $$E (2\pi r \ell)$$

- Just as a note, $r$ is a coordinate most of the time, where we're looking at, whereas $R$ is fairly often a constant of something's radius.
	- Radius of the Gaussian surface is actually almost always small $r$


### Q for non-uniform charge distributions
$$Q_{encl}= \text{GO CHECK SLIDES FILL THIS IN} $$




