#notes #phgn200 #physics
# Capacitors!
### The hell is a capacitor, anyway?
- Two isolated conductors (often metal plates) used to store electric potential energy. It's essentially a battery that just discharges really quickly
	- Ie, old camera flashes used capacitors - it's a lot of energy, delivered over a very short time, and a proportional amount of capacitance in a battery would've been a bit... chonky.
- A capacitor has capacitance, which is measured in farads using $C = \frac{Q}{\Delta V}$
	- Imagine a capacitor as miles per gallon for a car - it doesn't care how much voltage you end up applying - the capacitance is going to be the same.
	- Convention says capacitance is positive and depends on geometry and what the hell it's made of.
	- A fully charged capacitor has two plates each fully charged with a respective charge - all the positive charge is shoved into one side, which by virtue of coulomb's law shoves all the other ones out the other side, leaving just negative charges behind.
	- A fully charged capacitor becomes a resistor of infinite ohms
		- Quick aside
			- Field of a single (infinite) plane is $\vec{E} = \frac{\sigma}{2\epsilon_{0}}$ 
			- Two next to each other add together, so we just end up with $\frac{\sigma}{\epsilon_{0}}$ 
		- Finding our $\Delta V$ using $\Delta V = - \int \vec{E}\cdot d\vec{l}$ 
		- Using that $\sigma$ = Q/A 
		- So we get $\frac{\sigma}{\epsilon_{0}}\int_{0}^{d} d\ell$ 
		- $\frac{\sigma d}{\epsilon_{0}}= \frac{-Qd}{A\epsilon_{0}}$
		- And then $C = \frac{Q}{\Delta V}$
		- So $C = Q(\frac{A\epsilon_{0}}{Qd})= \frac{A\epsilon_{0}}{d}$ 
		- And that, quite conveniently, is the capacitance of a parallel plate capacitor, which comes up quite a bit.
#### Buncha Clickers
- If you turn the battery on, fuck all happens
- If you decrease the distance between them, capacitance increases
- If you increase the area of the plates, capacitance goes up 
- What does capacitance depend on? the geometry and material makeup, we *do not give a singular iota of a damn* as to the voltage or charge, even though $C = \frac{Q}{\Delta V}$ exists.

### Energy Stored in Capacity
- Uh, you can do the derivation, or just $$U = \frac{1}{2}C \Delta V^{2}= \frac{1}{2} \frac{Q^{2}}{C}= \frac{1}{2}Q\Delta V$$
- Energy density is energy over volume, and for a parallel plate we use $$u_{E}= \frac{\text{ Energy}}{\text{Volume}}= \frac{1}{2}\epsilon_{0}E^{2}$$

#### Capacitors in Series
- Fuck you, it's the opposite of resistors. You add them in inverse.
$$\Delta V_{Total}= \sum\limits \Delta V_{i}= \frac{Q_{1}}{C_{1}}+ \frac{Q_{2}}{C_{2}}+ \frac{Q_{3}}{C_{3}}$$
#### Capacitors in Parallel
- Still the opposite of resistors, you just add them together.

$$Q_{total}= \sum\limits_{i}Q_{i}= C_{1}\Delta V_{1}+ C_{2}\Delta V_{2}+ C_{3}\Delta V_{3}$$
This is because of elements in parallel having the same voltage drop across them, which pops that out