#notes #phgn200 #physics

### Clicker~~(s?)~~
- Inserting a dielectric into a charged capacitor, causes:
	- Capacitance goes up, but charge stays the same
		- So this makes the energy go down, as the dielectric needs to be polarized
		- (and like, the math just works out)

### Simple RC Circuit
- Reduced into having, at most, one resistor and one capacitor.

$$R_{eq} = \frac{1}{\frac{1}{2}+ \frac{1}{3}}, C_{eq}= \frac{1}{\frac{1}{10*10^{-6}}+ \frac{1}{5*10^{-6}}}$$
$$R_{eq}= 1.2 \Omega, C_{eq}= 3.33 \micro F$$
### Kirchhoff's Rules - More Sign Conventions
- Battery from negative to positive is positive, battery from pos to pos is negative
	- There was, frankly, a lot more words on this slide

## Recognizing Changes
#### Identifying time-dependent behavior
- When a quantity starts low and ends high, $A(t) = A_{\text{final}}(1-e^{-t/\tau})$ 
- When a quantity starts high and ends low, $A(t)=A_{\text{initial}}e^{-t/\tau}$ 
##### Identifying time-dependent behavior: Current
- Uncharged capacitor hooked up to a battery, what happens to current over time?
	- It should go *down*, right?
		- Let's fucking go, eat shit most clicker-answerers, get better, skill issue, L + no voltage + uncharged + no potential (difference)
##### Identifying time-dependent behavior: Charge
- Uncharged capacitor hooked up to a battery, charge goes up over time
- 
##### Identifying time-dependent behavior: Charge (but again)
- Current is going to *decrease* over time. Fuck.
	- This is essentially like pouring out a cup. That makes perfect god damn sense. How did I fuck this up?



$$I(t) = Ie^{-t/RC}$$
$$I(t=2s) = \frac{V}{R_{eq}}e^{-2s/R_{eq}C_{eq}}$$
- This is just a dash of $v=ir$ and plugging stuff in

$A(t)=A_{\text{initial}}e^{-t/\tau}$
$$I(5) = I(i)*0.9$$
$$0.9= e^{-t/RC}$$
$$\ln(0.9) = \frac{-t}{RC}$$
$$C = \frac{-5}{R-1 \ln(0.9)}$$