#notes #phgn200 #physics

# We doing topic three, magnetic shit
- Static charges do jack squat to magnets, but a *moving* charge does produce a magnetic field
- Also taught by Pat Kohl. Holy shit. I'm shaking in my flip flops.

#### So, magnetic fields
- Are a vector quantity $\vec{B}$
- Fields are measured using Teslas, which are $\frac{kg}{s^{2}A}$ 
	- Just for reference, teslas are pretty big. An MRI is 1-2 teslas, and those are BIG.

#### Biot-Savart Law
- Is unfortunately French.
- Governs how current makes magnetic field
$$d\vec{B} = \frac{\mu_{0}}{4\pi}\frac{I d\vec{\ell}\times\vec{r}}{r^{3}}$$
- This is fundamentally not *that* different from coulomb's law, which was, to recap
$$d\vec{E} = \frac{1}{4\pi \epsilon_{0}}\frac{dQ\vec{r}}{r^{3}}$$
- The bit out front? Still a constant of proportionality, which exists to make the units work.
- Our little chunk of source is where we have a difference
	- Coulomb's law is just a tiny little chunk of $dQ$
	- When we're dealing with magnetic fields though, we care about how much it's moving, and therefore it's $Id \vec{\ell}$
		- Which is because it's a vector
	- And because it's a vector, we can't just multiply, we need to do the cross product.
	- $\mu_{0}=4\pi *10^{-7} \frac{Tm}{A}$ 
		- This is the permeability of free space.
- Around a nice cylindrical wire, it makes little loops
	- This is where the <sub>first</sub> curly right hand rule comes into play.
- In a loop of charged material, they're all going to point the same way!
	- We actually get a fascinating little bit of behavior:
		- Straight wire makes loops of field, loops of wire make straight fields.
			- (ignoring the dipole that's spewing out the top)
	- If you invert the behavior of the curly rule (ie, curl your fingers in the direction of current, your thumb is going to point in the direction of the field)

----

- Example, where we have a line of charge and we're finding what's happening at a point away from a line of current
$$d\vec{B} = \frac{\mu_{0}}{4\pi}\frac{Id\vec{\ell}\times \vec{r}}{r^{3}}$$


$$\frac{\mu_{0}}{4\pi}\int_{-b}^{a}$$  
- Plugging in our things, $d\vec{\ell}=dy\hat{\jmath}$
	- $\vec{r} = -y\hat{\jmath}+ x\hat{\imath}$
	- This then gives $|\vec{r}\sqrt{y^{2}+x^{2}}$
- We want the cross product of $dy\hat{\jmath} \times (x\hat{\imath} -y \hat{\jmath})$ 
	- You can actually do a little distributing, and the $\hat{\jmath}$ part actually doesn't matter
	- So we're actually just doing $dy\hat{\jmath}\times x\hat{\imath}= -xdy\hat{k}$
		- If you're going in alphabetical order, you're positive, if you're not in alphabetical order, you're negative 
			- Alphabetical... but you can go around the corner.
$$\vec{B} = \int d\vec{B} = \frac{\mu_{0}}{4\pi}\int_{-b}^{a} \frac{I* xdy\hat{k}}{(y^{2}+x^{2})^\frac{3}{2}}$$
$$\frac{-\mu_{0}Ix\hat{k}}{4\pi}\int_{-b}^{a}\frac{dy}{(y^{2}+x^{2})^\frac{3}{2}}$$
- You have to do some icky trig sub thing because this is is icky.
- If you have an infinite wire, you'd actually end up with
$$\frac{\mu_{0}I}{2\pi x}$$
- That's also on the equation sheet, and comes up all the damn time and is vaguely worth remembering.
- Similarly on the equation sheet is the equation for the magnetic field along the axis of a current loop, which is

$$\frac{\mu_{0}NIR^{2}}{2(x^{2}+R^{2})^\frac{3}{2}}$$

