#notes #phgn200 #physics


## Autobots! Roll out!
- A transformer is a device with two coils in which a current through one coil induces a voltage in a second coil.

$$\mu_{0}I_{0}N_{1}= B_{1}$$
$$= \mu_{0}\frac{N_{1}}{L}I(t)$$
$$ (\mu_{0} \frac{N_{1}}{L}I(t))\pi R^{2}_{2}N_{2}$$
So the *maximum* induced EMF is when $\sin=1$, so that'll just be $\mu_{0} \frac{N_{1}}{L}I_{0}\pi R_{2}^{2}N_{2}*\omega$ 
- totally forgot about needing to do the time derivative? So that's where the $\omega$ on the end gets slapped on from


- Fun fact, the flux through one loop in Coil One is the same as the change in flux through one loop in Coil 2
$$emf_{2}= \frac{N_{2}}{N_{1}}emf_{1}$$
## Mutual Inductance
- The mutual inductance M is the proportion between the magnetic flux in coil 2 and the change in current in coil 1, which isn't relevant for this class but exists as a fun little bit.
## Self Inductance
- If the current in a wire changes, there will be an EMF *in said wire*. Inductance, represented by L, is the flux linkage (flux times number of loops) produced by a unit of current,
$$L = \frac{N\Phi_{B,\text{single loop}}}{I}$$
- Inductors produce a magnetic field when we have a changing current, and then basically end up working as the magnetic version of a capacitor
	- (in that sense than an inductor produces an electric field due to stored charges. it kinda makes sense and works out? Don't worry about it too much.)
- Induced EMF in an inductor is always acting opposite to the change in current. Everyone's a contrarian these days.
- Inductance can be given by $$L = \frac{\Phi}{I}$$
	- Draw your system, shove a current through it 
	- Find your flux
	- Divide flux by current to get self inductance
- Essentially, we're finding capacitance. More or less. 
	- Flux should just be $\pi r^{2}*\mu_{0}I$ 
	- $\Phi = \vec{B}\cdot\vec{A} = (\mu_{0} \frac{N}{\ell}I)(\pi R^{2}N)= \frac{\mu_{0}N^{2}\pi R^{2}}{\ell}$
	- Which then just gives $\mu_{0}n^{2}A\ell$

## Inductors are always backwards
- Same as a resistor - if it's the same as current flow, it's negative contribution
- Opposite direction though is positive contribution.

## Inductors Store Energy
- $U  = \frac{1}{2}LI^{2}$
- And $L_{\text{solenoid}}=\mu_{0}n^{2}A\ell$ 
- An "energized" inductor has a steady current, which means that it basically acts like a wire
	- An un-energized inductor acts like an open switch, so you get fuck all current.
	- Somewhere inbetween the two is where you get like, actual behavior
- If you hav ea simple circuit, you can use $$I(t) = I_{f}(1-e^{-t/\tau})$$
	- That's for exponential growth, and all of these equations work for both current and voltage change over time $$I(t) = I_{0}e^{-t/\tau}$$
	- The only major difference here is that $$\tau=\frac{L}{R}$$
	- 