#notes #hass298 #hass


**

- Career, how did you end up at Mines, etc?

	- Didn't plan on ending up as a professor
	
	- At the phd level, you start thinking about it, really didn’t think he would be a professor, phd you start thinking like an scientist, but make it actually happen liek an engineer
		- Was exchanging courses and such between Mines and Boulder
		- Ended up getting a job as a rseearcher at Mines, networking, etc
	- had a job at ITEnergy system, focused on making small scale lab ideas into actual solutions
		- It was real engineering! Idea in your head, you tried it, if it works it works
		- You had a big ol workspace, bunch of engineers you worked with
			- Couple downsides, most notably that nobody knew what they were doing, hence why they were laid off
		- Positive was making ideas come to life, negative was that none of the ideas worked
- Experience with CCUS
	- When it was first hatched, Neal was chair of the grad council, which reviewed if we actually have a new grad program
	- CCUS had a lot of pushback, not because of pushback against carbon capture, but a lot of pieces weren't quite in place
	- Created the module on how you can utilize carbon dioxide - carbon utilization (the u)
- How often do you consider your carbon footprint? Did being involved with CCUS change?
	- CCUS didn't change, but he does consider it fairly frequently, for some reason
	- Commuting, living at home, and travel, and that's the main carbon footprint
		- All the little things are inconsequential, never quantitified it explicity
	- Wish it was smaller
		- Like you go to these conferences and seminars, and that travel is a big ol footprint
	- What actions?
		- Straight answer is not a lot, other than driving a small car
		- Big travel doesn't demotivate, but realism is real
	- Thought about it in little ways before getting into carobn capture, has a full family, so you can coordinate to burn less gas instead of little driving 
	- Just likes driving a small car
- Optimistic vs pessimistic
	- Having learned as much as he has about what the technology takes vs what people are actually doing to keep the world going, there's a MASSIVE gap
	- Perth is basically the source of all the world's iron
		- They are RICH
		- They're all about sustainability for their mining operation, and they're making BILLIONs and they could theoretically throw money into it, and they've made big promises, but it was kinda smile and nod, not really optimistic that it's going 
	- What can they even do?
		- How do you dig the dirt?
			- You put it on a big ol truck, and it's diesel, and they're burning a LOT
				- What if it wasn't diesel?
				- Or some other way of pushing the truck up the hill? Batteries?
					- Nothing is free
		- It's a lot of little things along the entire supply chain
		- Former student works for Wabtec, which is a train
			- Ore gets carted along a train, largely downhill, how much can we mitigate carbon release through technology like this
		- There's a reason we're using what we're using, and it's not carbon mitigation?

- Why should companies bother?
	- They're driven by profit, if you don't someone else will, so why not just keep doing that?
		- Image (not quite the right word)
			- There's like 10% of the world's entire carbon is produced by 10 companies
			- We're not going to stop as consumers, so we gotta put the onus on the producer?
	- If you're a company, are you willing to bet that people will buy the more expensive, but green option?
- There's no punishment for polluting, really
	- I mean, like, your neighborhood will burn down

- Lots of companies are talking a big game
	- Happened in front of him at his own lab with BHP, they were working on green energy (green hydrogen), but then they changed to focusing on production
	- And they were in GEFI!


- How much of the onus for change is on the individual vs companies vs government?
	- Heavily opinionated, but it's on the individual - your purchases drive the industry, your vote drives the government
	- We're not seeing a lot of that
		- We aren't seeing the consequences of our actions enough to sway people - in the event that we have the consequences, it's probably too late
	- If you're not willing to spend money on climate change mitigation

- What do you think needs to happen to this change?
	- People have to feel pain on the individual level, (bit of a cynical answer), but when your house gets washed out into the sea, hell yeah, you're gonna care. People need to feel individual pain
	- Spirit of competition is usually captured the most, and the cost of pollution isn't really considered
		- But it *can* still happen - look at the change from leaded to unleaded gas
			- People rip into the US for pollution, but we also have parks and national lands and we do make a commitment to that
- Sustainable Aviation Fuels (SAF) are going to make flights cost more, but also sledgehammer into carbon footprint
- There's always going to be someone who can do more, and are champions of CO2 champions, but will there be enough to change the pbulic view?
	- We'll have to see
		- If/when New York were to go underwater, that would be a pretty damn big event
	- Hard to justify pollution when everything is "driven by the dollar"


- Do you think that people in the mechanical engineering profession have carbon footprint in mind?
	- Carbon footprint is a priority for people who get paid to minimize it, but that's not a lot of people
	- Wife works on massive wastewater plants,  and those often don't come into consideration
	- Military folks in engineering probably aren't considering it 
	- Lots of raw materials - there's so much steel going on, and the green sourcing is often not a consideration
	- It's often going to cost more, and another competitor coming in with a lower cost is a pretty big annoyance
	- Pitching a higher cost option, for instance, brown is silver Leed certified, we could've gone higher, could've gone lower
		- Mechanical engineers can do their part to minimize and move towards better carbon footprints