#notes #hass298 #hass



**

Nuclear fusion is an upcoming and inevitable development in the course of human history. The use of fusion is the inevitable endpoint of human energy production - from simple wood based flame to petroleum, humanity has been utilizing nuclear fusion in an incredibly roundabout way. Once we successfully began to utilize nuclear fission as an essential component of our energy network, the utilization of nuclear fusion was all but guaranteed. 

  

Energy production from nuclear fusion has barely passed the positive mark, \[REFERENCE: Age of Ignition] a milestone reached by nuclear fission in approximately 1934, when Enrico Fermi successfully created barium out of uranium, with a significant release of energy involved. This was the first energy positive nuclear reaction, and within twenty years, the Manhattan project took place, and nuclear energy truly became a portion of human energy production. 

  

A significant difference between nuclear fusion and fission is the level of scientific understanding that we possess at the same relative milestones -  it took nearly half a decade for scientists to understand just what Fermi had done with the production of barium in 1934. \[REFERENCE: Manhattan Project Report]. On the other hand, we possess a relatively unparalleled level of understanding surrounding nuclear fusion compared to any other energy transition throughout human history. Scientists - largely government funded - such as Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory have spent more than a decade tuning and developing equipment in order to achieve an end-positive fusion ignition, with a complete understanding of the underlying scientific processes.\[REFERENCE: Age of Ignition]

  

United States fusion research has been ongoing since approximately 1952, with a fairly continuous degree of funding and international cooperation ongoing throughout the entire time. \[REFERENCE: FES History Report] Particularly over the last decade or so, fusion research and milestones have been achieved largely on an international scale - the Chinese Experimental Advanced Superconducting Tokamak (EAST) continued to set records for prolonged high temperatures, even through 2023, before the first successful ignition was achieved by Livermore. \[REFERENCE: Chinese Lab EAST Report]. This cooperation is organized by the International Thermonuclear Experimental Reactor (ITER), an international organized founded in 1978 founded between the United States, Russia, Europe, and Japan. 




https://science.osti.gov/fes/Research/International-Activities/Origins

