 #edns291  #design 



## _**The Experience**_

- The most difficult parts of this experience for me was honestly more organizational - my group made a really good plan, we did some really good prototyping, but just getting time where we could all work on things was a little rough. Something I'm really proud of was teaching my team woodworking relatively effectively - I was the only one with any experience beyond basic machine training, but we ended up making a fairly coherent final product. Something that a lot of other groups did well was keeping mechanisms simple and making sure they worked - one of our main gimmicks, the going up and down, didn't work out because it required four different parts to be properly lined up and effectively frictionless, and we only really had that testing and viable on Tuesday/Wednesday of the week it was due. I think there's something to be said for shooting for the moon - the wing group started with a very big goal, and managed to rather effectively downsize to a wonderful prototype.
## **_Your Automata Design_**

- We followed a wonderful design process - started with sketches of what we wanted, did some cad models of what we were going for, did cardboard mock ups, did some iterative testing of gears using 3d printing, then moved to wood to final assembly. This process worked great - with the minor problem of that we had really focused in on the central rotating mechanism (which worked) and did not do any focusing on the track / up and down mechanism (which did not work). So, having gone through, I would've been a bit broader - we had deliberately focused in one thing to make sure that worked, and that ended up taking longer than expected, so we didn't get to follow through on the rest of our process and finish out our design. With more materials/money/time etc, I would've loved to make/obtain dowel caps / otherwise make the up and down motion functional. It was incredibly close to working, and probably about another day of tuning, maybe a bit of sanding, another draft of our track, and we would've worked exactly as intended. I also again would've loved to make this more self contained and more wood - we effectively ended up mounting our mechanism on a base plate, whereas I think it would've been very nice to have contained everything within a cylinder (except for a crank slightly sticking out). This was a gear issue where we designed our main spur gear to be the size of our platform, so there was no room to just insert a driving gear below it. 


## _**The Big Question**_

I feel like there were a couple rather important lessons, a few around production and a few more general. My biggest takeway was to plan more in advance - evidently going "the woodshop will be open," was not enough planning ahead, so trying to nip space conflicts in the bud *before* they're space conflicts isn't a very exciting takeway, but a takeaway nontheless. On a similar note, allocating more time for things to go wrong - our project plan was wonderful for if everything worked as intended and we kept on schedule, but we didn't - so the plan fell apart. I developed a nice familiarity with the Labriola spaces - I didn't use any new category of machine for this project (although the Labriola equipment is *very* nice), but I got a chance to familiarize myself with the resources available and their standards and practices. I also learned a good deal of SOLIDWORKs - I was mostly taught on Autodesk products, so enough knowledge transferred that I passed my CSWA, but learning additional SOLIDWORKs specific tricks (like quite how awesome the toolbox is) is a great repetoire addition.  

Furthermore, I just got some more practice doing projects! It was super fun having an idea and making it into a reality, going through the whole process I talked about earlier. I feel like most of the early stages of the build are well tread territory, I needed more practice (which I got) in the "sketches into CAD" phase, and then also got more practice in the "iterative testing of sub parts" phase. I also feel like the presentation went really well - I personally enjoy giving presentations quite a bit, so I feel like this was another good one. 

As for final applications, I think my points regarding time management, especially time for failure, is going to be my most important note to take forward into the final event. Not that the other lessons I also mentioned are less important, but I feel like that was the *most* important. 
