#notes #hass111 #hass






- Just as a preface, as I was looking back at these sources, I didn't process the degree to which Rebecca Hernandez (cited as R. R. Hernandez ) is involved in all of my sources. As best I can determine, she's an incredibly influential professor at UC Berkeley who does a lot of work in this field, so ends up being credited on a great deal of work. I'll do my best to both find some non-academic sources and sources not crediting Hernandez in the next round of citations.


\[1]

R. R. Hernandez, M. K. Hoffacker, M. L. Murphy-Mariscal, G. C. Wu, and M. F. Allen, “Solar energy development impacts on land cover change and protected areas,” _Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences_, vol. 112, no. 44, pp. 13579–13584, Nov. 2015, doi: [10.1073/pnas.1517656112](https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1517656112).
- This is a wonderful source talking about exactly what I would like to examine in my paper! The team looks at the impact of building big solar in California, especially in somewhat remote areas that are disconnected from most infrastructure, which is exactly the kind of thing that inspired me to write about this as my project. The authors of this paper are/were located at various UC campuses, based in their respective energy dpeartmenets.


\[2]

R. R. Hernandez, M. K. Hoffacker, and C. B. Field, “Land-Use Efficiency of Big Solar,” _Environ. Sci. Technol._, vol. 48, no. 2, pp. 1315–1323, Jan. 2014, doi: [10.1021/es4043726](https://doi.org/10.1021/es4043726).
- This source is a bit more of a second order point - one of the big sub arguments I think I'll end up pursuing in my paper is the potential other uses for the land. In order to effectively make a point regarding that, I at least feel that it would be reasonable to establish the benefits of solar land use, which this paper goes into the effective power generation per meter of various solar installations throughout California, including, again, the ones that inspired me to write this paper. Some repeat authors here in Hernandez and Hoffacker, and Field is currently a co-chair of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, a position he assumed roughly a year after this was published. 

\[3]

R. R. Hernandez _et al._, “Environmental impacts of utility-scale solar energy,” _Renewable and Sustainable Energy Reviews_, vol. 29, pp. 766–779, Jan. 2014, doi: [10.1016/j.rser.2013.08.041](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rser.2013.08.041).
- This is a bit of an earlier source, so pushing the boundaries of what I'm willing to include in this paper, but the sheer quantity of research that went into this paper makes it worth including (in my opinion). This was a massive collaboration between not only California universities, but also several international contributions including Australia and Spain to develop a full picture report of *everything* related to implementing solar, from material acquisition to soil impact. I don't entirely know what I'll be using from this source, but the exhaustive degree of research they did makes me certain that I will at least *somehow* be bringing their work into my report.
