#notes #hass111 #hass



When I think of nature, my first thought is of something that was not specifically designed ie - nature out in the world, like grass or animals. The longer I sit pondering though, I also consider human nature, which I define to be how people act when not confronted with an argument, which I guess falls back under a similar argument to the "normal state" of things being my definition of nature. I grew up in the suburbia of Southern California, so nature, as an object, was always somewhat controlled and stifled - or something that you had to go out of your way to find. However, from the Price readings and from a design focused book I read called How Design Makes the World (by Scott Berkun), I started to consider how even "natural" things fit into the design of the world, which I suppose answers how I think about nature and the world as a whole - everything is happening for a reason, consciously decided or not. Squirrels stash food for the winter for a _reason_, traffic cones are bright orange for a _reason_, and part of the definition of nature is why those reasons work. 

Big difference between a squirrel making the decision to stash food for the winter and a human buying up boxes of Kraft Mac n' Cheese for the winter is that humans argue and convince themselves as to why we do something, instead of just doing it. Now, I could be horrifically behind on advancements in squirrel psychology, but as far as I'm aware, squirrels don't make budget spreadsheets or make opportunity cost problems - they just do something. I view humanity (and myself, as a part of it) as a particularly complex tangle of arguments to justify decisions - and most events can be distilled down to somehow making an argument for something else. Attending this class is in service of being able to make better arguments at some theoretical career (in my opinion, although that may change over the course of this course) - building a house is an argument with the natural state of the world on keeping ourselves warm. This leads directly in to values - the stances we hold when making arguments. 

Those values could be