#notes #math112 #math #calc


# sequences and series.
## be not afraid.
#### just kidding. be afraid.

- A sequence is an ordered list of numbers
$$\{a_{1,}a_{2,}a_{3,}...\}= \{a_{n}\}_{n=1 }^\infty$$
Couple ways to define a sequence
- Explicity 
	- The sequence $$\{\frac{1}{n}\} = \{\frac{1}{1}, \frac{1}{2}, \frac{1}{3}, \frac{1}{4}, ....\}$$
	- The sequence
	- $$\{-1^{n}*2^{n}\}= \{-2, 4, -8....\}$$

- Define by recurrence
	- Given intial values
	- then we define new terms by a formula that depends on past terms

Initial value $a_{1}= 1$
$$a_{n}= \frac{1}{2}a_{n-1}$$
$$a_{1}= 1, a_{2}=  \frac{1}{2}, a_{3}= \frac{1}{4}$$
You could explicitly write that as $$a_{n}= \frac{1}{2^{n-1}}$$

---

$$a_{1}= 1$$
$$a_{2}= 1$$
$$a_{n}= a_{n-2}+ a_{n-1}$$
$$a_{1}=1 , a_{2}=1 , a_{2}= 2, a_{3}= 3, a_{4}= 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144$$
That's a Fibonacci just hangin out there.
(explicit would just be times 1.618181)

Explicit = $$a_{n}= \frac{(\frac{1+ \sqrt{5}}{2})^{n} - ( \frac{1+ \sqrt{5}}{2})^{-n}}{\sqrt{5}}$$


Important question for a sequence is, does it converge?

$$\{a_{n}\}= \{\frac{n+1}{n}\}= \{\frac{2}{1}, \frac{3}{2}, \frac{4}{3}, \frac{5}{4}\}$$

We could do a plot, with the "x" actually being the $n$ axis along discrete integer values
Those are called stem plots!

$$\{a_{n}\}= \{\cos(n\pi )\}$$
Is the same as $$\{(-1)^{n}\}$$
For some reason, people like to write these things with cosines and sines
Start with some series $\{a_{1,}a_{2,}a_{3,}\}$
Let $s_{1}= a_{1}$
and $$s_{2}= a_{1}+ a_2$$$$s_{3}= a_{1}+ a_{2}+ a_{3}$$
and so on and so forth

These are what we call partial sums - we're summing together terms from the a series, but not all of em at once

Recursive definitions are a thing that exist and make sense

$$\{s_{1,}s_{2,}s_{3,}...\} = \{{s_n}\}$$
This is called a series, a sum of some other thing

The limit of the series
$$L = \lim\limits_{n \to \infty} = \lim\limits_{n \to \infty} \sum\limits _{k=1}^{n} a_{k} = \sum\limits _{n=1}^{\infty}S_{n}$$
Is L a number?
If so, this thing converges (ie, does it converge)
It could diverge to some infinity, or it could diverge by just oscillating

$$\text{Find} \sum\limits_{k=1}^{\infty} \frac{1}{{k(k+1)}}= \frac{1}{1(2)}+ \frac{1}{2(3)} + \frac{1}{3(4)}$$
Conjecture is that $$s_{n}= \frac{n}{n=1} = \lim\limits_{n \to \infty} s_{n}= \lim\limits_{n \to \infty} \frac{n}{{n+1}}= 1$$

